README.md, before:

# SendSMS
Web service for sending SMS, viewing sent SMS and aggregated statistics.
The data is stored in a relational database.
During send an SMS the mobile country code of the receiver will be identified and stored within the SMS record.
This service is able to return the responses in JSON and XML formats.

# Configure and install
- In _Web.config_:
  - Set up the connection string with respect to your MySql Data Base.
  - Replace LogFilePath's value with a desired path for the SMS log file in a existing folder.
- At IIS Manager:
  - Create new Application Pool v4.0.
  - Add new Application on your site with this pool and path where project was downloaded/published to.

# Services
Service | Example | Description
--- | --- | ---
countries | countries.json | Gets the countries list.
sms/send | sms/send.json?from=The+Sender&to=%2B4917421293388&text=Hello+World | Sends the SMS.
sms/sent | sms/sent.json?dateTimeFrom=2015-03-01T11:30:20&dateTimeTo=2015-03-02T09:20:22&skip=100&take=50 | Gets the SMS sent earlier.
statistics | statistics.json?dateFrom=2015-03-01&dateTo=2015-03-05&mccList=262,232 | Gets the statistics for days and countries.
More detailed information and examples are available on Web.API Help Page once API is running.

# Actual SendSMS implementation
While this project is a WebAPI/DB wrapper around sending SMS, it can not send real SMS.
To make it actually work, one should add an `ISMSSender` implementation and replace `DummySMSSender` unity mapping in _web.config_ with it.

# Technology stack
- C# 6.0
- .NET Web API (Framework 4.5)
- ReSharper
- Entity Framework Code First
- Unity IoC-container
- MySQL

# Possible optimizations
- DataBase may perform better after replacing LINQ queries in _SendSMS.Data/DataProvider.cs_ with Stored Procedures.
- _SendSMS.Data_ project may be extracted to its own solution with internal API for better scalability.

# Difficulties I've been through
- Since DB SMS price should have 3 decimals, I needed to adjust DB decimal format. Since I decided follow the Code First approach, it took a dedicated NuGet package (EFAttributeConfig) to make an annotation required.
- API SMS price, on the other hand, should have 2 decimals, and I have no idea how real-world companies compute their bills, so I just `Math.Round` prices for single text and for statistics record.
- .json/.xml extensions for associated result formats in Web.API weren't obvious for me. I did it with `config.Formatters.JsonFormatter.AddUriPathExtensionMapping` in `WebApiConfig` after some research.
- Unfortunatelly not all LINQ features can be automatically translated to SQL, so it took me some time to make all LINQ to Entities requests work (`GetStatistics` was especially tricky!)
- I never used an IoC-container before, so I studied Unity to inject `ISMSSender` implementation via web.config.

Commit message:

Input/output DateTime formats setted up.

README.md, after:

# SendSMS
Web service for sending SMS, viewing sent SMS and aggregated statistics.
The data is stored in a relational database.
During sending an SMS the mobile country code of the receiver is identified and stored within the SMS record.
This service is able to return the responses in JSON and XML formats.

# Configure and install
- In _Web.config_:
  - Set up the connection string with respect to your MySql Data Base.
  - Replace LogFilePath's value with a desired path for the SMS log file in a existing folder.
- At IIS Manager:
  - Create new Application Pool v4.0.
  - Add new Application on your site with this pool and path where project was downloaded/published to.

# Services
Service | Example | Description
--- | --- | ---
sms/send | sms/send.json?from=The+Sender&to=%2B4917421293388&text=Hello+World | Sends the SMS.
sms/sent | sms/sent.json?dateTimeFrom=2015-03-01T11:30:20&dateTimeTo=2015-03-02T09:20:22&skip=100&take=50 | Gets the SMS sent earlier.
countries | countries.json | Gets the countries list.
statistics | statistics.json?dateFrom=2015-03-01&dateTo=2015-03-05&mccList=262,232 | Gets the statistics for days and countries.
More detailed information and examples are available on Web.API Help Page once API is running.

# Actual SendSMS implementation
While this project is a WebAPI/DB wrapper around sending SMS, it can not send real SMS.
To make it actually work, one should add an `ISMSSender` implementation and replace `DummySMSSender` unity mapping in _web.config_ with it.

# Technology stack
- C# 6.0
- .NET Web API (Framework 4.5)
- ReSharper
- Entity Framework Code First
- Unity IoC-container
- MySQL

# Possible optimizations
- DataBase may perform better after replacing LINQ queries in _SendSMS.Data/DataProvider.cs_ with Stored Procedures.
- _SendSMS.Data_ project may be extracted to its own solution with internal API for better scalability.

# Difficulties I've been through
- Price precision:
  - Since DB SMS price should have 3 decimals, I needed to adjust DB decimal format. Since I decided follow the Code First approach, it took a dedicated NuGet package (EFAttributeConfig) to make an annotation required.
  - API SMS price, on the other hand, should have 2 decimals, and I have no idea how real-world companies compute their bills, so I just `Math.Round` prices for single text and for statistics record.
- .json/.xml extensions for associated result formats in Web.API weren't obvious for me. I did it with `config.Formatters.JsonFormatter.AddUriPathExtensionMapping` in `WebApiConfig` after some research.
- Unfortunatelly not all LINQ features can be automatically translated to SQL, so it took me some time to make all LINQ to Entities requests work (`GetStatistics` was especially tricky!)
- I never used an IoC-container before, so I studied Unity to inject `ISMSSender` implementation via web.config.
- I took me some heavy research to customize `DataTime` serialization/deserialization:
  - I created a custom `ModelBinderAttribute`, `ValueProviderFactory` and `IValueProvider` implementation to limit input `DateTime` format. Thanks to this technique my contract is able to accept `DateTime?`, but parsing an URI parameter to target type is customized.
  - `DateTime` JSON serialization is easily customizable with a custom `IsoDateTimeConverter` subclass.
  - `DateTime` XML serialization is trickier sinse it is written in ISO 8601 format ([source](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/web-api/overview/formats-and-model-binding/json-and-xml-serialization#xml_dates)). Luckily, one could specify `[XmlElement(DataType="date")]` to write date without the time.
